Hello and welcome in this lecture we get to talk about Linux archiving and compression tools.
So file our cutting tool groups a set of files into a single standalone file that can be backed up to
several files of media.
It can be transferred across a network are sent via email.
The most frequently used frequently use our common utility in linnets is called Taar.
Then in archiving utilities use along with the compression tool it allows to reduce the disk size that
is needed to store the same files and information.
So basically if you have like say three files that's taking like 50 megs there are big file and a few
tar them and combine all three of them together.
Then it'll take a lot less space than 15 minutes.
And once you send them wherever you want to send them via email or via whatever means and then untired
them and you'll have the original three files back with whatever size they had.
So tar bundles a group of files together into a single archive.
It's commonly called a tar file our tar balls.
The name originally stood for tape archiver but we must note that you can use this tool to archive data
to any kind of ridable media.
Not only tapes TAR is normally used with a compression tool such as zip zip to our Z to produce a compressed
top 10 are we going to use some examples in which we're going to use all three compression tools which
is that GZ got busy too and got X and we're going to see examples of all three of them.
So I have five files here which is file one to file five just by using touch.
And now I am going to archive all five of them by using the three compression methods.
So the first one is going to be car C Z af and I'll tell you what that means in a minute my files on
TAR but gz file when you are using one through five.
OK.
So in the c z f c is that you are creating a tar archive.
That's what the C is for zes to process archive to Jees it.
So Zipp that's where the Z comes from.
And Fs are filed.
And if you want to look up more information on Taar you can of course Newcomen tar in all the details
of the syntax and all the options available.
OK so this is going to tar all of her files into one tarball.
Let's see just creative.
Yeah.
The red one right here is the file.
No let's use the other compression method which is busy too.
So no you're going to do TAR c g f my files got tar got B C to a good file
1 through 5.
In this case C again is to create a time archive small just to process the archive to be easy to take.
And see that's created and second was created as well.
And we're going to use the last compression method which is Taar see capital G.
If my file got Taar dot X Z while 1 through 5.
Google then all three bundles are tarballs created here and you can use a command which is LS dash h
and then grep for TAR.
Ill give you the exact size off the tar balls so you can compare this to the original size of your file
to see if it's less or not it should be
no wonder you look at the contents of one of my tower files so I'll do a tar tee vee.
My Files tar dog g z and it shows me that inside my tar tar ball I have file 1 2 5 5.
These are the contents of them.
Now next step is going to be we get to run the compression again which will be like jeez if gash d my
files got tar not GZ.
The second one is going to be B zip to dash D.
My Files got tar dog be easy to see.
Already exists.
You've done it once before.
And the last one is going to be X Z dash D.
My Files.
Gosh doc tar doc x.
So on the last one there was no Phyliss just file.
So instead of doing files we'll just do file
so we got the three guys create it in.
We actually shipped over tar ball and now we want to extract it to to get the original files back.
So in order to do that you have to run the tar X V.F..
Are we going to target the file.
So the command for that is starting with again x x x access for extraction vse for verbose interface
for file.
And I'm going to use one example out of three.
And there we go.
All of our five files are extracted again.
Samples that are in your location this time.
All of this was our discussion of how you archive a file and compress a file.
It's a very broad subject and we can go into further detail about that.
But as far as the exam problem point of view is concerned I think this much in intermissions is should
be sufficient.
And you can look at the man pages just to look at some other options that are available in the tar utility's.